# Create a package with cargo

## Background

Compiling and running Rust programs manually using `rustc` is fine, but certainly makes us
do a little bit more work than needed. That's why Rust comes with an additional tool that
takes care of compiling and running our programs using a single command.

In fact, `cargo` is also the main package manager for installing and creating packages in Rust.
In this exercise we'll create our first package using `cargo`.

To create a package, we use `cargo`'s `new` command:

```sh
$ cargo new <PROJECT_NAME>
```

This will create a folder `<PROJECT_NAME>` for us. Inside that folder, we'll find a `main.rs`
file and a `Cargo.toml` file.

The `Cargo.toml` file is the file that describes our package by providing information such
as the `name`, `version`, `author` and `dependencies`.

```toml
[package]
name = "<PROJECT_NAME>"
version = "0.1.0"
authors = ["<AUTHOR_NAME> <AUTHOR_EMAIL>"]
edition = "2018"

# See more keys and their definitions at https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/manifest.html

[dependencies]
```

The generated `main.rs` file also already comes with a functioning program. In fact, it's the
same hello world program we've built in the first exercise.

We can compile any cargo package usin cargo's `build` command like so:

```
$ cargo build
```

This will put the executable program in a `./target/debug/` directory. The reason this is done
is because cargo allows for building for different environments, in which case there'd be
multiple "targets". The `debug` target is the non-optimized "development" executable.

From here, we can just run the program by executing:

```
$ ./targets/build/<PROJECT_NAME>
```

Obviously, that's the same amount of steps as before. All the above can be done with cargo's
`run` command. 

```
$ cargo run
```

This will generate the target and execute the program right away. 

## Exercise

Create a package `say-my-name` inside the `src` directory using `cargo new`. Inspect the files
and see what cargo has generated for you.

Once done, compile the project using `cargo build`. After that you can try out the `run` command
as well.

## Extra Credit

### Production builds

For the sake of the example, run both commands `build` and `run` using the `--release` option, which will generate optimized build targets.
