# Mutability and Variables

## Background

Variables in Rust are initialized using the `let` keyword like this:

```rust
let name = "Pascal";
```

It's possible to add type annotations as well, although, in this particular example it's not
needed due to Rust's **Type Inference**:

```rust
let name: &str = "Pascal";
```

Don't worry too much about what `&str` means for now. 
Variables in Rust are immutable by default. This has the advantage that we get guarantees over
if, and when, variables get a new value assigned.

For example, the following code tries to assign a new value to `name`:

```rust
let name = "Pascal";

name = "Alice";
```

This results in a compiler error:

```sh
error[E0384]: cannot assign twice to immutable variable `name`
 --> src/main.rs:4:5
  |
3 |     let name = "Pascal";
  |         ----
  |         |
  |         first assignment to `name`
  |         help: make this binding mutable: `mut name`
4 |     name = "Alice";
  |     ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ cannot assign twice to immutable variable

error: aborting due to previous error

For more information about this error, try `rustc --explain E0384`.
```

We can't assign a new value to `name` because the variable is immutable. The compiler is very
good at giving us useful information about what when wrong and where. It even tells us what needs
to be done to fix the issue at hand. To make `name` mutable we have to explicitly annotate it
with the `mut` keyword:

```rust
let mut name = "Pascal";
```

## Exercise

Let's change our `say-my-name` program to have a `name` variable similar to above, which is then
displayed using the `println` macro. Right after, we assign a different name and output it again.

### Placeholder variables in `println`

`println` supports positional, interpolated values using the `{}` delimiters. To display the value
of a variable using `println`, use `{}` inside the text to be displayed, and pass the value as
additional parameter to the macro:

```
println!("Hello {}!", name);
```

This can be done with as many variables as we like:

```
println!("Hello {} {}!", first_name, last_name);
```
