# Read user input

## Background

To make our program a bit more useful, we want to enable users to enter their name, instead of
having the program use hard-coded ones. The program will then ouput "Hello {NAME}", where `{NAME}`
is the name entered by the user.

To do that, we need to take a closer look at Rusts `std::io` APIs.

Rust comes with package to work with standard input and output. When programs read input entered
by a user, it's typically received via **stdin** (or "standard input).

To make use of Rusts `std::io` module, we need to load it into our program using the `use`
keyword:

```
use std::io
```

This will make the `io` module of the standard library available in our program. In other words,
all API defined in `std::io` can now be used throughout our own package.

Reading input from `stdin` can be done using [`io::stdin().read_line()`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/io/struct.Stdin.html#method.read_line). This function takes a `&mut String`, wich is a
"mutable reference" to a String buffer.

In practice, this means we need to create a mutable String, and pass it to `read_line` by
reference using the `&` modifier.

```rust
// creates a mutable String
let mut name = String::new();
```

Why a mutable ref though? At its core, this has to do with Rust's notion of "Ownership", but let's not get ahead of ourselves. All we need to know is that `read_line()` will fill our `name`
with the data entered by a user.

There's one more thing that's special about `read_line()` - it returns a `Result<usize>`.
We haven't talked about `Result` types yet, but for now we just accept that the function can
resolve in either an error, or a value. `Result<T, E>` expresses exactly that.

To keep things simple, we unwrap a value from a `Result` using its `unwrap()` API:

```rust
// passes a mutable *reference* of `name` to read_line()
// read_line() is blocking and waits for stdin data
io::stdin().read_line(&mut name).unwrap();
```

## Exercise

With these tools at hand, extend our `say-my-name` program to receive user input for the `name`
which is then displayed using `println!` macro.

Test the program using `cargo run`.
