# Simple error handling with `expect()`

## Background

As described in lesson #04, one way to handle `Result<T, E>` types is to call their `unwrap()`
method. This will resolve the value in case the API in question was executed successfully.
However, if it emits an error, it'll actually stop the program with an error message and stack.
In Rust, we're calling this "panic".

Usually we want to prevent our programs from panicking as this is not the most ideal user experience.
One easy way to improve such a situation at least a little bit, is to use the `expect()` API
in favour of `unwrap()`.

`expect()` behaves almost identical to `unwrap()`, just with the difference that we can give it a
useful error message that will be shown to the user when the program errors.

```rust
io::stdin().read_line(&mut name).expect('Something when wrong when entering a name');
```

Obviously, this is still not very ideal, especially when it comes to creating composable APIs
where errors are better propagated and handled by the caller, but this will be covered
in future lessons.

## Exercise

With this new tool at hand, let's make our `sum` program a bit more useful and extend with
similar user input capabilities as our`say-my-name` program.

Change the program so that it asks the user to enter two numbers. Remember, a mutable`String` 
buffer needs to be created first:

```rust
println!("Please enter the first number: ");

let mut first = String::new();
io::stdin().read_line(&mut first).unwrap();
```

We want both entered values to be numbers so we can pass them to our `sum` function. To turn
the strings to numbers we use the `parse()` API. `parse()` returns a `Result<T>` as well so
this is a perfect opportunity to use `expect()` for an improved error message:

```rust
let a: u32 = first.trim().parse().expect("Not a number");
```

**Important:** It's possible to parse a string into different types, so we need to tell the
compiler what type we're trying to parse the value into. Given that `a: u32` comes with a
type annotation, the compiler will infer that we're aiming for a `u32`.

If the type annotation was not there, we'd make it explicit as part of the `parse()` call
using the turbofish syntax:

```rust
let a = first.time().parse::<u32>().expect("Not a number");
```

Once we have those two numbers, we pass them to `sum` and print the result.
